all right i think we should kick it off
uh like katherine said i am kamara
moodle and i am from demo stack i'm a
senior account executive so really
experienced in selling and doing all of
the sales motions and i'd love to
introduce todd jansen
todd how are you doing good morning
doing great and uh good to see you again
yeah you too
um so tell us a little bit about your
background todd and what is cube ranch
yeah uh thanks for the question so um
funny enough today
is my um 17th anniversary at salesforce
um so i started
17 years ago as a solution engineer that
was a new role for me
um so i did that for about three and a
half years had a lot of success it was
kind of the first time that i felt like
i was really really good at something it
was it was blending my engineering
education and background
and some of the social skills that i
picked up along the way
and um about three and a half years into
that
uh salesforce came out with a
programming language called apex and i
found myself back at my desk
coding
and it dawned on me that it was taking
me a lot of time
and for every hour i was at my desk
coding i wasn't in front of customers i
wasn't selling
and that's when the napkin idea came to
me
it was wow we should have a team that
does some of this
for us so that we can stay in front of
customers
um so essentially just taking that
concept kind of looked at what what
pre-sales and what solution engineers
don't love doing or are not great at and
i've built it into q branch
over the last 14 years
to about 250 employees globally and uh
the name a lot of people ask about the
name so yeah there's a james bond
reference there that you know that's
where bond goes get the latest intel and
widgets and gadgets and things to go uh
complete the mission but
q is short for quartermaster
quartermaster is a real thing in real
life and the army the quartermaster arms
the troops it's a perfect metaphor for
what we do in sales we are behind the
scenes we are arming our sales teams
with killer high fidelity assets and in
the navy the quartermaster navigates the
ship and we have a branch of q branch
that just helps our sales teams
go try and win the biggest deals of
their career
thanks for that explanation that really
helps and also who doesn't love james
bond and quartermaster it all makes
sense
right
yeah
so let's talk a little bit more about
personalization
today we're talking about striking the
right balance between personalization
and efficiency in pre-sales and when
we're talking about personalization why
is it important when it comes to
pre-sales would you think
i think it's it's never been more
important the reason i say that is i
think i think the buyer has changed and
i think cove had really accelerated that
you know mckenzie will tell you that
covet accelerated u.s e-commerce growth
by 10 years
and we know this because our parents and
grandparents started ordering groceries
from their mobile phone
and so um
people want to see your product
they want to see it now they want to see
it on their terms and it has to look
like their world
so you know maybe five years ago you
could maybe get off with a beginning
intro pitch or demo that was totally
generic and people would kind of go
along but i think
more important than ever like you need
that personalization up front
yeah i definitely see that in my sales
cycles as well every single person i
speak to wants to see something more and
more relevant so i can't get away with
just doing an overview tour anymore i
think days are gone
i think it's a good time for us to hop
into a poll
um i'd like to hear from the audience
how many calls do you have before
showing a product demo and if it's more
than this feel free to do the number as
well after you do take the poll once we
start talking about some of the feedback
i'll give you guys a couple of minutes
here
all right
as far as what i'm seeing in the sales
cycle i mentioned that a lot of folks do
want to see personalization i'm starting
to show product first i would say on the
first call that i'm taking but
historically
until i came to demo sac i wasn't really
able to do that so it was probably about
two to three calls before we even showed
product
let's see
anybody else coming in through the polls
i think we'll give it a couple minutes
because i don't see any responses just
yet so we'll hop into the next question
here
um there's the question of efficiency
especially when it comes to
personalizing every conversation
where do you feel the most pain in
striking that balance todd
yeah i mean that that is the constant
question every every se has to weigh
every sales person has to weigh
um and as you and i were you know we've
talked about this before um you know at
salesforce you know
15 years ago
um
you know what the beginning of the cube
branch like we started making tools and
things to to really
um
take that off the table to make
personalization a few clicks in a few
minutes
um versus spending hours because i think
you know the reality is um
you know
and and you know we're talking about
this like i just take this for granted
because we've had this forever but you
know if it's taking you more than five
minutes a few clicks just spin up a demo
environment that let's say it's 50 of
the way
you need to solve for that like you need
to go through some scale at that you've
got you need to go invest in that
whether that's buying some software or
building some tooling yourself or
getting r d to do something different um
you know anything longer that's too long
for an se to just get that kind of
baseline demo and then when it comes to
kind of those those you know further
stages of personalization
you know whether it's data loading or
whatever it is
you know the goal is to shorten that as
much as possible
and at some point you are going to have
to throw tooling at it or software um
because frankly you don't want your sc
spending four hours of prep for every
30-hour 30-minute meeting
exactly and you don't want to have to
have an se being pulled into every
single sales cycle i can imagine as well
yeah you know i i say this a lot when um
you know some of these webinars and
stuff they do that you know pre-sales is
one of the biggest bottlenecks in b2b
sales um and that's that's not meant to
knock ses or not the profession i love
the profession i consider myself lifer
um it's just the reality right and a lot
of it has to do with just calendars and
getting their expertise so
um you know if you can if you can reduce
that
no i think you're you're in the win
category
i think we've gotten some answers back
from the poll now it looks like majority
of folks on this session about 50 of you
all about one call before any product is
shown so i'm guessing that's the
standard intro and overview doing a
little bit of discovery and then hopping
into product on that second call and
thereafter
um about 38 of folks are in these zero
calls before product is shown so they're
showing the product on the first call
that's awesome that's kind of what i'm
seeing the shift being at this point
todd what about you are you seeing
something similar on your side
yeah and i think you know we we talked
about this just a few minutes ago that
um i think we're we're in a different
buying landscape and
you know maybe a few years ago probably
won't see as much uh in the zero
category there it'd be later stages yeah
yeah about 13 of you is it's about two
calls and then product is shown
hopefully we can reduce that and get you
guys to show product sooner
um where in the sales cycle do you
optimize for efficiency and where do you
focus on personalization
yeah i mean i think if we if we think
about our sales funnel
i think you have to optimize for
efficiency at the top of the funnel
um because if you do it right at that
point
every se every bdr every sdr every ae
can show some level of personalization
with a few clicks right but as you get
deeper in the funnel you're really
getting deeper into personalization
and so
um you know and it makes sense right
like the deeper you are in the sales
cycle and the funnel
it warrants the time investment in
personalizing things
um and spending that real time but but
you got to be careful not to do that too
early in the cycle
um
because it's you know you just you run
the risk of people leaving the funnel
and um you know you're spending too much
time in unqualified leads that's that's
not a good thing either
yeah that makes a lot of sense and i do
find that once i've done a lot of
discovery and we've shown product even
on the first or second call by the third
caller fourth call you're getting more
and more folks in the sales cycle as
well so kind of makes sense to do more
of that personalization around what they
might want to see
exactly yeah i mean
you bring up a really interesting point
like there's personalization to the
company you're selling to
but there's personalization to each
stakeholder as well in the selling cycle
yeah they get really excited when they
see things that make sense for them
specifically
yeah you gotta you gotta tap on the
personal value right yeah
what tactics have you found to be
helpful in getting more personalized
without sacrificing that efficiency
yeah i love the question because it
reminds me of one of the first tools we
made here at salesforce um
something we call the org customizer
that'll mean
nothing to anybody um but the whole idea
was
could we pop up a little modal a little
widget when someone created their new
demo environment and could you change a
few things
could you change a few accounts um a few
product names a few contact names
hit send
log into your your demo environment
refresh the dashboard and your prospect
would think that you spent all day
loading their data in your environment
and so
the question reminds me of that tool and
you know i had to kind of think back
because we've had it for so long
but it's been such a staple of almost
every single demo we've done at
salesforce since
that um
you know i think i think every company
needs something like that
hey well that's why you got demo stack
now i think you you were the only ones
that were able to do that at salesforce
for a while because i definitely
remember spending hours and hours on
powerpoints and updating things not able
to update my demo environments at all in
my past roles
yeah i mean i think that's what's so
exciting about what you guys are doing
and for me personally
you know i never thought someone would
make a company
or software to actually
build what we've we built inside
salesforce and
um so for me it's super rewarding it's
super cool to see i know you guys do
something similar with your variables uh
being able to cascade changes all
throughout your product so
um when i saw that i just i
yeah i just never thought i'd see the
day yeah it makes those vertical
specific and use case specific demos
really easy which is awesome yeah
yeah
um
in terms of
how you're seeing the efforts of
personalization impact revenue
acceleration can you speak a little bit
more to that
yeah i mean
you know i think
the the
the more people see
their world their life
inside what you're showing them
the more um willing they are to bring
additional stakeholders into the selling
cycle and early on that's what you're
really trying to do um you know i think
we forget that the person tasked with
that software they've been given a task
or a mission or a project hey go out
there and evaluate this stuff and come
back to us on what you found so what
you're really trying to do is is educate
that person
um
really kind of enable that buyer if you
will to then go up to the chain and say
hey look this is what i've i've found
check it out look at look at i'll show
you myself when you have your internal
champions selling on your behalf like
there is nothing more more powerful
yeah i definitely would agree to that
and especially if they can really
understand what you've shown not just as
that overview but something that makes
more sense and is showing them more of a
value proposition through product it's
so much easier for them to support their
buzz their business case that they're
creating
yeah you know gartner says that 73 of
the sale happens without the sales
person
which is a which is the mind-boggling
stat and i think you know we're hitting
on that right here is um as as good of
salespeople as we think we are
most of that is happening without us and
so when you think about it in that
context this idea of buyer enablement
right becoming the coach
um
is really really critical
because the best thing we can do is
enable that person to sell on our behalf
yes 100
that's definitely what i've been trying
to do in my sales cycles is become more
of that coach and get them really
excited about the product but in a way
that it's easy for them to translate
that information internally it's been
successful so i'd have to agree
any final takeaways on how to strike the
right melons
yeah you know i
i was just reminded i was listening to a
great um pre-sales podcast last week um
it's called two pre-sales on the pod um
it's such a good podcast and they had
peter cohen on right and if you don't
know who peter cohen is you go look it
up now
um he's he's kind of one of these gurus
of our profession
um but he had this like incredible quote
that um this reminds me of and he says
our job in pre-sales is to secure the
business with the least expensive form
of proof
and what i love about that is it's
similar to something that i've said
throughout my career is um you know we
are trying to show our product in the
best possible light
with the fewest clicks possible that's
maybe a little more tactical version of
what peter was saying
but i think we need to we need to
remember that right if we can get if we
can get away with generic great like
we're gonna be super efficient we're
gonna close a lot a lot of deals and
look there are professionals out there
that are really good at showing generic
screens and just saying something like
imagine if you will
right but i would say that's a very
very slim
minority and so for the rest of us right
we do have to kind of think about that
you know how does kid business the least
expensive form of proof i just love it
yeah exactly
all right we have a couple of questions
for the audience as well
i think the first one
what do you think your prospects expect
from you in terms of personalization
i know todd you probably have some
insight here to what you've seen in your
history
i've seen everything underneath the sun
but i think data is probably the biggest
piece that my prospects would want
personalization on the data actually
being relevant to them and not sample
data something that makes more sense in
their eyes and even is specific to their
business as well
yeah i'd agree with that and i think
people expect some form of generic up
front
so you know their expectations are
lowered but if you can come in pretty
early
and show them their world and show what
their their you know business looks like
in your product
um i think i think you can differentiate
pretty early
yeah so audience feel free to put some
stuff in the chat here i'd love to hear
a little bit more about what you're
seeing and what people are expecting to
be personalized on your side
and then another question to talk a
little bit about too is how often do you
personalize your pitch
the pitch is pretty generic from my
experience but i find myself now
tailoring it a little bit more based on
who i'm speaking to and maybe honing in
on use cases up front giving some
suggestions as opposed to just doing
discovery up front and then kind of
tailoring from there what do you think
about that todd
yeah and again i think this goes back to
like the buyer has changed and you know
three years ago we probably could have
gotten away with
you know generic and you know kind of
imagine if you will but
um i don't think that's fine anymore and
again i think i think that you know what
we've been through in the last couple
years has accelerated that
um and you know it's it's it's things
like netflix that have changed all that
people want it they want it now they
want it on their terms their time
it's a different world
all right so we are actually coming
right up on time that was some really
great content thank you so much todd and
kamara um yeah this was a great session
we have a lot more great content today
and we'll see you in the next ones
have a great rest of your day everyone
thanks so much
thanks everyone
[Music]
you